---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9"
date:   2020-11-06 00:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Setting up an AWS account is quick an easy allowing for access to all of AWS software. AWS is a service that allows Amazon's servers to be rented and used for various reasons. Amazon allow for the user to setup a server without needing to go through the cost of buying hardware. This allow for business to have an easily scaleable design to their services with the use of AWS automation. A user would setup an account with Amazon and only pay for the services they use. AWS pricings vary by service type and for how long they are running. Many services have a free tier so users don't need to be big business to utilize AWS. Setting up an AWS account requires the use of a credit/debit card so making sure your account is secure is critical for the user's financial well being.

AWS offers ways to help secure your account, for example, using MFA (mulit-factor authentication) on the root account is always a good idea. I did say "root account" because you can also setup users that would sign in and are managed by that root account. A user can create admin accounts to create and manage different services and this also allows for better security as these accounts can be deleted, changed, or disabled through the root account. AWS passwords, or passwords to any login page should be strong and random; however, remembering passwords can be difficult as it is generally frowned upon to use the same password in multiple places. It is up to the user to have a strong password that they can reliably remember. Using MFA helps with this issue, even if some malilicious person learns the password, they still can't login without the code to the MFA device. Using both a strong password and MFA secures the account, but this isn't foolproof. In the unlikely event that both the MFA and the password are compromised, someone other than the authorized user can have the same level of access as the user that was compromised. I personally used a prepaid visa card to establish my AWS account so even if they gain access to my account the worst they can do is charge the limit to the card I created. I can also easily increase the amount in this card to pay for services I may use in the future but this is just another layer of security. AWS offers cheap and easy to use infrastructure that can be automated and monitored. AWS does offer their own financial management services and can be another layer of security to a user's AWS account. While AWS has cheap and free options, they also have powerful and expensive options that malicious people my want to use as it wouldn't cost them money. Final message: <strong>SECURE YOUR AWS ACCOUNT OTHERWISE YOU WILL HAVE PROBLEMS</strong>
