---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 12"
date:   2020-12-04 00:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
The Google maps API is simple to use once you get to know how to use it. Now that can be said about most programs, but it is especially true with Google maps API. Google has extensive documentation about the different features reagarding their API. You can use it in your website with realitive ease. The Google maps API just requires a google account to gain access to the free trial version of their API which gives $300 of credit to be used for 90 days. While setting up an account requires you to put in credit card, the application process states that it won't start charging the card unless the user manually enables billing. This is helpful for students like me who are learning about using APIs but don't want to be stuck with a few hundred dollars bill for testing the API. The Google maps API can be used with vanilla javascript and allow for the restriction/removal of the default maps tools.

With Google maps API you can quickly add a map to your website and you can also remove points of intrest, the zoom function, or even the street view function if you don't want them. You can have a website that showcases the location of your business, or you can build a "guess the building" game very easily with shapes you can place on the map. Creating shapes on the map and then placing an event listener on that shape object will allow you to have different functionality with the Google maps API. The Google maps API <a href="https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/overview" target="_blank">documentation</a> is extensive and even has a search function to help you find the function you need. While the google maps API is easy to use, most functionality isn't free. Pricing information can be found <a href="https://www.google.com/aclk?sa=l&ai=DChcSEwj_46np6bXtAhX4Cq0GHZk-AH0YABADGgJwdg&sig=AOD64_1Vf-ABCtkMGQKOv48jKwYH0mlzOQ&q=&ved=2ahUKEwjEr6Lp6bXtAhUlJTQIHUTVA6AQqyQoAHoECAkQEw&adurl=" target="_blank">here</a>.
