---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 11"
date:   2020-11-13 00:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Intel has helped improve the memory access times with their technology called Intel® Optane™ memory. This is a low cost form of memory caching that greatly increases a computer
response time. According to <a href="https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/optane-memory.html" target="_blank">intel.com</a> the technology learns what files are opened frequently and then caches these files together. Intel describes this process like creating a playlist for songs you listen to while running instead of going to the album, then find the song, then hit play for every song in this playlist. This technology is very similar to DRAM but saves and accesses data like flash memory. This technology is slightly slower than DRAM but faster than flash memory. It is ment to bring a balance between cost and responsiveness while being non-volitile storage. This technolgy is an Intel product and doesn't replace DRAM or an SSD but is intended to make SSDs more responsive.

There is another technology called NVMe (Non-Volatile Memory Express) which is designed to make SSDs faster. This technology uses high speed PCIe sockets to communicate to the CPU. NVMe can deliver sustained read-write speed of an estimated 2000MB per second, and because it communicates directly to the CPU, it has a lower latency. This technology effectivly bypasses a SATA controller when memory is requested. NVMe is effectivly faster in every regard compared to SATA. PCIe and NVMe have evolved together and allowed for estimated throughputs of 16 Gbps duplex. With the fact that SSDs don't have moving parts and thus have a quicker read write time than HDDs, computers can communicate to different components with greater detail and with faster connection speeds.
