---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10"
date:   2020-11-13 00:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
There is an online application for hosting webpages or apps called <a href="https://glitch.com/" target="_blank">glitch.com</a> that can help with practice making websites and webapps. The free verson of this service has limitations on memory and storage but can be upgraded for a monthly fee. Glitch can also be used as a collabrative enviroment for a group to work on a project together and allows for the use of json files in projects and allows for a view on what the webpage/webapp will look like. You can also just use Glitch to host the project by simply giving the view link out rather than the edit link. Glitch makes it easy to import/export projects with their interface but I learned that you can use glitch to export projects to <a href="firebase.google.com" target="_blank">firebase</a> which is Google's mobile application development platform that helps you build, improve, and grow your app. Simply creating a firebase.json file will prompt the user to sign in to firebase's console and allow for deployment of an app to firebase with a button press.

Depending on the project you may need to first build the project into a directory and then export only that directory but Glitch allows for the use of a json file for exporting a project onto firebase. There is probably support for other development platforms but I've only used the firebase deployment so far. More information about how to do this can be found <a href="https://medium.com/glitch/build-firebase-apps-instantly-on-glitch-e312e594701c" target="_blank">here</a>. Glitch has helpful tools to assist in building your app and even has a terminal for inputing linux commands if you have the need for it. While this service is free, there are limitations on how big and intensive your program can be as they don't have an infinite number of servers to physically host all of the projects on their platform. From what I can tell, each project appears to be a virtual machine running on a server that may be sharing physical resources but cannot interact with one another. 
