---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5-SP21"
date:   2021-04-02 00:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
In a previous <a href="https://rtorres713.github.io/jekyll/update/2020/11/06/Blog-9.html" target="_blank">blog post</a> I talked about securing an AWS account. This post focused on using secure passwords and a MFA to secure the root account. While there isn't anything stopping you from using your root AWS account to accomplish tasks, it is not considered best practice. Normally you would establish another account within the root account but it has admin rights. This allows for you to have an additional layer of security and also allows you to easily add and remove accounts for whatever reason. If the root account is compromised, the "attacker" can startup any service they want. However, if you use an IAM (Identity and Access Management) account you can restrict what services that account can see/modify. You can still add or remove rights from the root account or even require the password to be changed on next logon.

The IAM users can be categorized into groups and roles. Each group, role, or user will be given a policy that defines what that entity can do. Amazon provides a list of premade policies or you can create your own either through a virtual editor or through a JSON file. AWS policies are in a JSON format and can be viewed through the AWS console. Setting up an IAM account is done in the IAM service section and can either have an autogenerated password or a predefined one. Amazon even allows for the sending of an account through email. Once an account has been setup, you are given an option to send an email which will include instructions on how to login. This allows for teams of people to work together on the same environment and depending on how the roles are setup, can restrict access to resources that a person shouldn't be allowed to change. Doing all of these steps will further decrease the likelyhood of waking up one morning just to find that someone setup a bitcoin mining operation and now you owe Amazon $200.