---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8-SP21"
date:   2021-04-23 00:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
GitHub is a useful tool that allow multiple developers to work on the same code. This is useful with collaboration and even can act as a version control system. This blog uses GitHub, but since I am the only one making changes to files, there aren't any conflicts I have to worry about in this repository. Multiple people working on the same file can cause some issues, such as when two or more people make edits to the same file. This causes a problem as if the edit(s) occur too close too each other. This is called a merge conflict, and sometimes these issues can be solved automatically, but not always. Solving these conflicts usually requires determining which edit to keep or keeping both. This can usually be done in the webpage of your repo, but some conflicts can only be solved through the command line. Solving merge conflicts usually requires removal of the conflicting file or determining which file or edit is correct. 

Merge conflicts that are cause by competing line changes can be easily solved through the web GUI. All other merge conflicts, however, must me solved locally on the command line. Using the command line to solve a merge conflict depends on the type of conflict created. The command line can individually add files to prevent a conflict where the file exists in both branches but doesn't match. GitHub can usually automatically solve merge conflicts, but GitHub usually stays on the side of caution and may say a merge conflict has occurred when no apparent conflict is present. GitHub knows that collaboration on the same project can lead to instances where multiple changes have occurred to the same file and are trying to be merged into the same branch. Collaborating on a project can lead multiple people to find different solutions for the same problem, and thus a Pull Request (PR) can make at least one other person aware of the change you are attempting to make. The best practice for GitHub collaboration is to create a PR when you are trying to "save" your solution to a branch (usually main) so others can view and decide which change to keep. All of this just makes it so your code is peer reviewed.