---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10-SP21"
date:   2021-05-07 00:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
AWS is a very useful service if you need to host a web app or need a certain amount of processing power to complete a task. AWS offers a way of requesting a server and get a lower rate by telling AWS ahead of time. This is known as a Spot Instance in AWS and can be used for a load balancing or batch processing. While this is usually used for batch processing, if you configure an AMI to host a web app, you can use a spot fleet for load balancing. A spot fleet uses a launch template to start an EC2 instance and can start other EC2s if needed. Requesting a spot fleet will help with costs as a spot instance is cheaper than a regular EC2 instance. If configured correctly, you can customize the metric that determines if a new instance should be started. This is done in the auto scaling section of the request. The auto scaler will maintain the minimum number of instances specified and automatically shutdown unhealthy instances. AWS will also sometimes request for the resources that a spot instance is using and give the owner a notice that their instance will be shutdown. A spot fleet will have a range of different instance types it could start up, and as long as the current price of launching a new instance isn't more than your max price, it will startup a new instance with little to no downtime. A spot fleet can launch an EC2 instance with more computing power too. A spot fleet would continuously request the instance until it is able to be provided. The price of a spot instance also varies and is usually much cheaper than the on-demand pricing.
