---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9-SP21"
date:   2021-04-30 00:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Terraform is a useful tool for automating resource allocation/creation. Terraform can automate the process of creating or updating resources in a server with a single or set of files. I've used terraform to automate the creation of different resources in AWS and the terraform <a href="https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs" target="_blank">documentation for AWS</a> is very helpful. Terraform is best when creating a redundantly available server. Terraform is an open source infrastructure tool that I've used to create AWS resources. Terraform also has the benefit of deleting all created resources with a single command. This can help with cost management and is useful when testing different infrastructure. Terraform also has the ability to show you what resources will be created if you run the file(s). Many cloud computing services cost money just to be created, so knowing what exactly is going to be created can help you make sure you don't pay for resources you don't need to. While this is useful knowledge, Terraform doesn't know if you even have permission to create these resources and the program may still fail due to other reasons.

Terraform is a tool that helps automate infrastructure and minimize mistakes that may otherwise happen. Using terraform to manage AWS resources can help when dealing with many resources. Terraform runs in a directory (folder) and all terraform files require a <code>.tf</code> suffix. As long as these rules are followed, Terraform will run all files and create all of the resources at (seemingly) random order. You can overwrite this by using a <code>depends_on</code> meta-argument. This will then only create that resource after the resource(s) specified in the argument making it so a resource that is dependent on another resource wont fail because the dependency hasn't been created. This is the general use for terraform and many questions involving terraform can be answered by googling <code> [service_provider] [resource_needed] terraform</code> or some combination of that.