---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7-SP21"
date:   2021-04-16 00:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Due to many different factors, getting new graphic cards has become difficult. Graphic cards (aka GPUs) have become hard to come by. A combination of manufacturing being rolled back and the price of Bitcoin rising has made GPUs hard for tech enthusiasts to get. For most people, the use of a GPU is unnecessary as CPUs are powerful enough to do most types of computing. Now GPUs are better at handling graphical computations (aka rendering) than CPUs. This makes having a GPU better for playing realistic games with a high frame rate. GPUs are usually used for gaming purposes, but can also be used for video rendering or long complex computations. Bitcoin mining is a very long and complex computation and GPUs are best suited for this task. 

Bitcoin miners would buy many GPUs in order to maximize their mining potential. Bitcoin mining is the process of creating a new bitcoin by solving a computational puzzle. The ins and outs of bitcoin is a long and complex series of processes that could be in a blog post in its self, so I'll focus on how mining affects GPU market availability. Bitcoin miners would buy many GPUs to run multiple instances of this process. The more instances that are attempting to complete this computational puzzle, the more money (bitcoin) they will make. However, doing this is can reach a point where the cost of power would be more than the value of the bitcoin(s) mined. The growth and variability of Bitcoin entices people to invest money into getting bitcoin. While all of these people are investing a lot of money into bitcoin, they are buying high end computational chips in order to solve these complex mining operations and thus are making it hard for people trying to upgrade their computers. This along with COVID-19 still (at the time of writhing this) affecting the world, new GPUs are difficult to get a hold of.