---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6-SP21"
date:   2021-04-09 00:00:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
AWS has many automation tools available to users. One tool that can be used by developers is AWS CodeDeploy. AWS CodeDeploy can be used in various application contexts. These contexts include, but are not limited to, Lambda functions, packages, scripts, or webpage files. CodeDeploy makes it easier to rapidly release new features, update AWS Lambda functions, or even automate the deployment process of large or complex applications. CodeDeploy offers many benefits to a developer such as: automated deployments, a stop and rollback feature, centralized control of all servers, and even concurrent deployments. The compute platform I'll be focusing on will be the EC2/On-Premises option. There are other compute options that automate various other compute resources listed previously.

There are also a choice of deployment types; these types are either In-place deployment, or Blue/green deployment. Blue/green deployment's behavior depends on the compute platform used. The main difference between Blue/green and In-place deployment is that Blue/green deployment would shift traffic to a newer version. In-place, the deployment I'll focus on, updates the content with little to no downtime. Similar to GitHub actions, CodeDeploy would only trigger based on an event such as an update to a GitHub branch or updating an amazon S3 bucket. CodeDeploy agent on the server would then poll the central CodeDeploy to determine what and when to pull the updated file. Once the server knows what needs to be updated and when, it would follow said instructions and now the server is hosting the most updated version of the application.

CodeDeploy is a resource that helps automate applications and reduce the chance of human error keeping a server offline for a prolonged period of time. While CodeDeploy is a powerful resource, if you are using the On-Premises version, there is a $0.02 fee per update, otherwise you would only pay for the resources provisioned during an update (like the cost of a running EC2 instance).